UCI Theses and Dissertations Manual - 6. Electronic Doctoral Dissertation and
Master's Thesis Submission Procedures
6.1 Submitting Electronically the Doctoral Dissertation or Master's Thesis
6.2 UCI Open Access Service
UCI allows Doctoral students and Master students tosubmit their dissertation or
thesis electronically via the UMI ETD system. Allrequired and optional paper
forms need to be submitted to the GraduateDivision, 120 Aldrich Hall by the
submission deadline.
Electronic submissions of a doctoral dissertation ormaster’s thesis must
follow all formatting requirements set forth in the manual. It is the
responsibility of the studentto ensure that the doctoral dissertation or
master’s thesis appears asoriginally intended when it is accessed or printed.
An original Ph.D. Form II/Signaturepage or Master’s thesis/Signature page,
with committee signatures and othersignatures (as appropriate) must be submitted
to the Graduate Division with allother final degree paperwork
(http://special.lib.uci.edu/dissertations/electronic/td5e.html). The manuscript
submitted electronically (ETD) should notinclude a signature page.
The doctoral dissertation or master’s thesis must besubmitted as a single
electronic Portable Document Format (PDF) file. If theoriginal doctoral
dissertation or master’s thesis is a Microsoft Word or RTFfile, you will be
able to convert the doctoral dissertation or master’s thesisto a PDF at the
UCI Dissertation Submission Site (http://www.etdadmin.com/uci). If the doctoral
dissertation or master’s thesis is not in Microsoft Word, RTFor PDF - e.g.
LaTeX or WordPerfect - it must be converted to PDF before thestudent uses the
Submission Site. Certain types of fonts and graphics workbetter with PDF, and
special attention should be paid to creating equations forPDF conversion.
Optional supplemental files (images, video, audio) that are anintegral part of
the doctoral dissertation or master’s thesis but not part ofthe full text may
also be submitted electronically, upon approval of yourcommittee.
6.1. Submitting Electronically the Doctoral Dissertation or Master's Thesis
Electronic doctoral dissertations and master's theses must be submitted via the
UCI ETD Dissertation Submission Site (http://www.etdadmin.com/uci).
When the doctoral dissertation or master’s thesis isready to be submitted,
students click on “Submit Your Dissertation/Thesis” inthe left sidebar. This
link opens the log-in page for students to click on the“New user” link to
create a free account. If an account has already beencreated, students enter the
appropriate email address and password into thetext boxes provided and click
“Log-In.” If you are submitting a revision, usethe revise dissertation link
in the email from sent to you from the reviewer; donot create a new account.
Once the log-in is successful, students followthe instructions and links. In
addition to properly formatting your doctoraldissertation or master’s thesis,
you will need to choose one of four publishingoptions. Please see the options
site (http://www.il.proquest.com/dissertationagree/dissertation_publishing_agree
ment.pdf) for details on the four options and discuss them withyour committee
chair. Current UC Irvine policy requires immediate release ofdoctoral
dissertations and master’s theses. If you  wish   to delay publication with
an embargo, you  must completethe embargo section of the Ph.D. Form
II/Signature page (http://www.grad.uci.edu/forms/current-
student/PhD_Form_II.docx) or the Master's Thesis Signature Page
(http://www.grad.uci.edu/forms/current-student/Masters_Thesis_Signature.docx).
Options for the period of time an embargomay be granted are: 6 months, 1-6 years
and by exception, an option to requestmore than 6 years. For this option, you
must attach a brief memo of explanationaddressed to the Graduate Dean. The
student’s acceptance of the SubmissionAgreement and ProQuest Release
isrequired in order to submit the electronic doctoral dissertation or
master’sthesis. These agreements contain standard language that is also part
of thepaper contract that one would sign while filing a paper doctoral
dissertationor master’s thesis. Students click on “Accept” to agree to
these terms.
Next, students complete the required text boxes withstudent name and contact
information and click “Continue.”
The next page requires information about the doctoraldissertation or master’s
thesis and student’s degree. Students paste or typethe doctoral dissertation
or master’s thesis abstract into the appropriate textbox. There is a limit of
250 words for the Master’s thesis abstract and a limitof 350 words for the
Ph.D. dissertation abstract.
Finally, students indicate whether ProQuest isauthorized to register the
student’s claim to copyright with the U.S. CopyrightOffice for an optional $55
fee. Once students click on “Submit,” the next pagemay take a few minutes to
load.
The next page is an optional order form for printed,bound copies of the doctoral
dissertation or master’s thesis. To place anorder, students complete the
relevant fields and click on “Place order.”Otherwise, students may click on
“Continue without ordering copies.”
The final page gives students the opportunity toverify the accuracy of the
submission. If the submission is satisfactory,students click on “Log out.”
An email confirmation of a successfully submitted electronic doctoral
dissertationor master's thesis will be sent to students. A printed copy of this
email needs to be submitted to the Graduate Division, along with all other
forms
. The electronic doctoral dissertation or master’sthesis will be sent to the
University Archives for final approval. Upon reviewof the electronic doctoral
dissertation or master’s thesis, the UniversityArchives will send an email to
students identifying any problems or questionsprior to the final approval.
Students will need to submit requiredcorresponding forms, to the Graduate
Division, Aldrich Hall 120, once they havesubmitted their thesis or
dissertations electronically.
For technical questions, students may contact http://www.etdadmin.com/cgi-
bin/main/faq?siteId=0 (http://www.etdadmin.com/cgi-bin/main/faq?siteId=0). For
questions about doctoral dissertation or master's thesis required forms,
students may contact the Graduate Division at 949-824-4611.
6.2. UCI Open Access Service
It is the policy of the University of California,Irvine that dissertations and
theses be published and made available for publicaccess. [In June 2000, Graduate
Council voted unanimously to reaffirm therequirement that dissertations be
published and made available for public use.]  Electronic copies of all UCI
theses anddissertations submitted to the ETD system will be routed to the UCI
Librariesshortly after the formatting of your manuscript has been accepted by
UniversityArchives. The Libraries will preserve and make accessible to the
public alltheses and dissertations submitted electronically, in accordance with
theLibraries policies and best practices. Such access includes online
publicaccess through the University of California’s open access
repositoryeScholarship.  Providing such accessincreases the availability and
dissemination of your work at no charge to you,a benefit UMI/ProQuest will
provide only for a fee. If you request an embargo(see Section 6.1 above) and
that request is approved, the Libraries will honorthe embargo and provide access
to the dissertation and or thesis only when theembargo period concludes. With
that embargo, the ETD is not cataloged for theUCI Libraries collection nor
published by UMI/ProQuest in their databases normade available in eScholarship
until after the embargo period concludes. Allstudents who submit an ETD must
complete and sign the “Open Access” agreementform, which is part of the
Ph.D. Form II/Signature Page and Master’s Thesissignature page.
Students may still submit their thesis or dissertationin paper rather than as an
ETD. Paper theses and dissertations will not be madeavailable in eScholarship.
Masters theses submitted in paper are bound and madeavailable for circulation,
but they are not available online.  This is a good option for MFA students who
donot want their theses distributed on the web. Paper dissertations are still
sent to ProQuest, where they are scannedfor inclusion in the ProQuest Digital
Dissertations Database.  Distribution is limited and availableexclusively
through UMI/ProQuest. In order to gain access to a UCI ETD online,a researcher
must be affiliated with an institution that subscribes to afull-text option in
ProQuest.  Thefull-text options are very expensive, and few universities
subscribe. Mostinstitutions subscribe to the abstract and index product.  The
UC system subscribes to the abstract andindex product, but we pay extra to
include UC full text dissertations from 1997to the present; access is restricted
to authorized UC users.  
